Jira Tool
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
1. How to use Jira Tool?
2. How to add users/people in Jira
3. How to create Backlog--->Epic
4. How to create stories in Jira & add story points
5. Creating Sprint in Jira
6. Adding User Stories to Sprint
7. Starting Sprint
8. Adding Sub Task to Story
9. Sprint cycle.


///***Before use Jira Tool let us understand What is Jira, What is the purpose of Jira Tool.
So we have multiple types of tools were available in the software testing industries.
we have Bug Tracking Tools, we have Test Management Tools, Automation tools, 
Functional Automation Tools, Perfomance Testing Tools, Secured Testing Tools,
So there are several number of tools are there in the market, especially for testing.

Tools divided in to two different parts 
Management Tools and Automation Tools

Management Tools means what is the process we are having, what are the documents
we are preparing, what are the activities we are doing throughout the testing cycle,
we can track all these activities in a tool instead of using Template, Word or Excel.
They are basically comes under the Test Management Tools,
  So what we can do in the Test Management Tools is 
	we can define the requirements,
	we can write the test senario, test cases, update the test execution status,
	we can report the Bugs, and finally we can close the requirements.
So these things are testing activities STLC. i.e., there are some tools supporting the 
testing activities, like BUG Tracking Tools, Defect Tracking Tools  can be used instead 
of template word excel, like defect description, priority, sevieroty, attach a screen shot,'
i can send it to a developer. and they will take care of the Defects.***\\\

Test Management Tools:
From the begining we can track each and every activities in the Test Management Tools
like, Writing Test Cases, Execution, BUG reporting. Everything we can track in the Test
Management Tools.

Similarly we also have
Bug Reporting & Tracking Tools or Defect Tracking Tools:
Apart from this we have also tools like Selenium, QTP(Test Automation Tools), whatever
test cases we have, we can automate those through Selenium but this completely different Tools.
Like these are the process related Tools.

Again The Test Management Tools having the Features of Bug (Reporting & Tracking) Tools.
So these are the part of STLC.

So apart from these tools we have 

Agile Tools
Especially these tools are used for Tracking the Agile Tasks, Like from the Epic Stories will
be defined by the Product Owner, and then after that we have Product Backlog, then we have
a Sprint Plannning Meeting, and then we will select some of the stories from the Backlog and 
we prepare the Sprint Backlog, which contains some of the stories which were commited 
by the Dev & QA, Then we will have a sprint. Once we start the sprint it will go under different
stages like Starting the Stories, Development, Testing, Deployment. and finally we will Close 
the Story and give the Demo to the Product Owner and finally release to the customer.

So what are the Agile Tools available in the Market 
	--Jira, VersinOne, Teamcity......
So now we are going to Discuss about Jira Tools
	Each and every activity we can define, we can track in Jira Tool itself, and these tools
will be used by product owner, developers, testers, who are is working under the team have
access on Jira Tools.

******************************************
Jira ----> Agile Management Tool

Every thing we can do within Jira Tool itself, but Jira itself is not providing any Test Mangement 
Activities by Default, so by default in Jira we cannot define the test cases, bugs and everything.
But we have a special plug-in called Jeffire, and if we install that particular plug-in inside the Jira
we can do test management Activities, like we can write, define the testcases, we can update
the status of the test cases, we can reprot the Bugs, and we can generate the test reports, everything
we can do in the Jira Itself by using Jeffire Plug-in Along with the Jira, Apart from the Agile
management Activities

So first of all we see how to install and configure Jira Tool and we need to know and follow some
work flow, so there is a workflow available i.e., Jira Work Flow.

(Create our test cases, or we import the test cases, suppose in excel we have n number of
testcases, we need to upload all the n number of testcases once in the Jira, instead of writing all
the tescases we can import all the testcases inside the Jira once, and then we create a test cycle,
then we add the particular test cases to particular test cycle, then we can execute the test cases,
and if there is any failure we can report the Bugs, and then we will generate the Reports, so These
are all comes under Test Management Activities. So these activities also we can do it in the Agile
in Jira Tool and it is having a different work flow.)

How to install and configure Jira Tools

Link : https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira/free or go to Get it free by following below

type jira in Google and search and then next page will be having
Jira | Issue & Project Traccking Software | Atlassian, click and then we have like
(Atlassian is a product based company and Jira software is belongs to Atlassian company)
ATLASSIAN  Products, For Teams, Support
if we click Products we can see
plan, Track, & support and below that we can see Jira Software
There we can see Get it free, we can download and install, but it is a complex process..we need
to setup server and everything, So instead what we do is, we can create a Jira instance on Cloud.
Cloud means what?
They allocate some space and they will configure Jira for us and they will provide the link for Us.
and we can use it for 30 days.
After cliking Get it Free then we have page like

EACH PRODUCT ON A FREE PLAN:
Tick Support to 10 users or 3 agents			Concluence
Tick Included 2 GB of storage
Tick Offers Community Support				Jira Service
Tick Its always free, no credit card needed 			
							Next

Then click the above mentioned Next, then we will have page like

			Welcome back, (Name)
		Work Email:
		sign in with a different atlassian account
Before we create the cloud instance of Jira we have provide our google account and create a new
 instance clicksign in with a different atlassian account so now we have a page like


(Basically they have provided JIRAS in two favours in cloud itself:
one is - - - - - >  Free Version: 10 users are limited for / 30 days
                 So after 30 days you want to continue with Jira or if we want increase users from 10 and
above then we have to go for
Another one is - - - - -> Pro (Licensed) on the same cloud or the same url but you need to pay
                                   for Jira Tool, we need to buy some License for that.
So now a days most of the company offering on Cloud environment directly.)

			ATTLASSIAN
		Login to your account
			continue with Google
provide you gmail account and click so you will have a page like

in Claim your site
	give some name  .*******.atlassian.com
add gmail account give next then give skip again skip then it will create new JIRA Instance
(See Screen Shots).
			HOW TO CREATE PROJECT page

*In page called Create Project in Jira instance creation, once we give the Project Name automatically
the Key Field will create a short form of Project which we have given* say for example OP
	So what is Key means, Whenever we create a Story, Task, Bug, or Testcases or
Whatever you do or whatever the object you are creating with in the JIRA you have  to give a name 
for that, and that name will also followed by a prefix, and that name is you KEY.

So When I create a Story--->The Story will contain some ID----->Let us say 0001
Then if Key is OP Then we will have ------>OP_0001.

Same as the above If you create a Task, Bug, Test cases.. Then Key will be prefix for all IDs.

*****And we can Chage the KEY ID by Manually******

Once We Create the Project Name and Key ID by Clicking Create Then we will see the *Home Page*
of your JIRA TOOL and close the window  *Jira Quickstart*.
In HOme Page on the Top We can see YOUR WORK, PROJECTS, FILTRERS, DASHBOARDS, PEOPLE

So now we have Successfully configuire the Cloud Instance of JIRA TOOL, By above Process we have
not Downloaded any software, we just configure the Cloud Instance of JIRA TOOL(Free Version 30 Days).

So Following above process along with screenshots every one can create their own instance of Cloud.

After that we have to know the Work Flow, So what exactly we can do in the JIRA TOOL.
We are Going to perform the Scrum Activity in the JIRA TOOLS.

/*Suppose if we want to create a new project by tomorrow, then we have to go to Project Menu Home Page.
Click the Project 
Then Click the Create Project 
Then it will go to page for creating a project newly.*\

If we Click DASH BOARD  menu we can see what are all the project we have
			 we can see who is the owner,
			 How many people working on the project	
all the information will be shown in the DASHBOARD.

			HOW TO ADD USERS/PEOPLE IN JIRA
Go to Home Page in Jira
Clik on Settings on the top right
In Settings we will see "User Management"
Click User Management
you can add Users mail id and click Invite team Members. (scroll down and see the memebers added)

In scrum where we need start is from the Backlog
Backlog---->Epic---->Stories---->Create Sprint---->Add Stories tox` the Sprint---->Start Sprint---->add Tasks
for Every Story.

			HOW TO CREATE BACKLOG

If you click Backlog on left side you can see VERSIONS & EPICS Vertically.
	There we can see no Stories  (Backlog 0 issues).
in this click Version which is in Vertical view. 
Then click Backlog it will show in Blue colour, and at the same time click Projects and select the project Name
What do you want to work with,    you can see TO DO, IN PROGRESS, DONE.
and again move the cursor to Backlog and click then we can see
	VERSIONS Create version x in Horizantal and Epic in (Slow Process please wait for few seconds).
	All issues same as Click EPIC
now close VERSIONS & EPIC and then if we click VERSIONS in horizontal and go on

(Issues-----> Story is one issue, Bug is one issue, Task is also one issue type.
	  So in Jira every object we create is an issue.)
and now we can create version and epic
and then we have to create Stories in Jira and add Story points

		Adding Story points

and then we are going to create Story point by using Product Backlog Excel.
	On top of the Home page 
 	Click Create menu
	Create issue popup will open
	in that select Project Name(eg: Opencart(OC)), Issue Type(Story), Summary.
	and if there is any documentation about the Story to understand Better the product owner 
	will attach the documentation by (browse) like UI Screens, Mock Screens, DFT Diagrams.
	Add Description about the story point
	Reporter-->email who is reporting
	Assignee-->to whom you are assigning (All user)
	Select Priority
	Epic Link--> select that it show the Epic Link which we have created.
	Click Create at the Bottom of the page
we can create again one more story by Clicking Create another and then click Create
so like so on we can create Story under Epic 

So now we go to Backlog and we created Epic with the versions, under the Epic we can
Stories

Once you click the Story we created eg Registration inside that we can see the Story
Points, so During the sprint planning meeting we will give story points for all Stories 
we created with the help of Product_Backlog_Excel.(See Screenshots). 

		CREATING SPRINT IN JIRA
So What is Sprint? Sprint is cycle which contains 2 to 4 weeks inbetween period duration
with in the Duration we have to implement few number of Stories, not all the Stoires

 In home page, after creating all Backlog and Stories we can see Create Sprint above Stories.

Click Create Sprint
Empty Box for Sprint Plan will open like (Plan Your Sprint)
Drag the Stories Which are commited by Dev and Tester one by one and put inside the Plan your Sprint Box.
(See ScreenShot) for Sprint 1.
Once the Stories added in Commited Sprint we can see a on right side  Start Sprint button comes.
and  if we click the "Start Sprint" we can see a pop up for declaring Duration, Start Date, End Date, Sprint Goal Box
fields on we fill all give and Start

Now we can see the Story Board or Scrum Board, here we can see the status in TODO,  INPROGESS, DONE
Here the Scrummaster will drag the Story to INPROGRESS, and once the story is been completed the
Scrummaster will drag the Story to DONE Status.
And once the Story is moved to Done then that story is Read for Demo, and Once the Product owner accept
the Demo then the piece of software(Story) will be delivered to Customer.

		ADDING TASKS IN USER STORIES
Click the Particular Story to Add Tasks
Eg Selecting Register story by clicking the Id which has automatically Generated (See Screen Shot)
we can see a window we can Description, Activity and all
in that window Click Create subtask on top then
Create Task According to Dev and QA. (Aslo we can create Task by clicking on the top of the Home page
by giving Epic link and Sprint number and this is very high level Task, and it can be anything not specific to
particular story).
Dev will have different task to complete where as QA will have some Different Task to Complete

		Dev						QA
	Understanding Requirements				Understanding Requirements
	Designing						Writing Test Senerios
	Coding						Writing Test Cases
	Unit Testing					Test Case Reviews
	Integration Testing					Test Data Preparation
	Code Review					Test Environment Setup
	Bug Fixes						Test Execution
	Team Meetings					Re-Test Bugs
	Any other						Team Meetings
							Automation
							Set up Evironment and Install Build
							Anyother
Once above Task is created for Dev and QA
 then Scrum master will take care of moving Tasks to particular status, 
and once all the tasks are completed 
Click on Move to Done button and give Done inside the Story Window which is completed.

This is how we do the Scrum Activities Inside the Jira Tools.
Apart from this we can also do the Test Management Life Cycle

     			 TEST MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES

We write the Test Cases, we can create the Test Cases, We can add the Test Cases to the Particulare
Test Cycles, we can update the execution Status, we can report the Bugs, So these things are comes 
under Test Management Activities.

By default Jira will not provide you These above Options for that we have to install a new Plug-In
Called  ----------->   ZEPYRE

1). TEST CASES 
     Normally in Test Management Activities we will write the TEST CASES, or suppose u have already written
     the test cases in Excel Sheet or Excel File, we can directly import all the test cases into JIRA
	So we can write our own test cases into Jira or we can import the test cases from JIRA.
2). TEST CYCLE
     We create the TEST CYCLE, What is Test Cycle Means? We can say Regression Test cycle or Functional
     Test Cycle or Sanity Test Cycle, So in Each cycle we will have some number of Test Cases and Execute
     those Test Cases in that Particular Cycle and then we Report the Bugs if there is any mismatch between 
     Expected and Actual. 
     (So we create the Test Cases, Create the Test Cycle, once the Test Cycle is started we will execute the test
     Cases manually and then we will update the Test Cases)
3). UPADATE THE TEST CASES PASSES/FAILED/BLOCKED
4). REPORT THE BUGS
5). AND THEN WE GENERATE THE REPORTS

	And these are the activities we do as part of  Test Management.
So if we click on Create in Home page We should see Test in Issue Type for that we have to install ZEPYRE
Plug-In.

for that Click on App menu in Home Page
the clikc Find New Apps, So inside this Find new Apps we have to Search for ZEPYRE
Inside the Search Bok type Zepyre then we will get "Zepyre for Jira- Test Management" Click that
Install Success
and See Tast in Create in Home and See Zepyre in Home page.



     












	











